---
title: "Daily News"
date: 2018-05-17
---

## Big uncertainty on the June Summit between the U.S. and North Korea.

Trump meet South Korean leader at White House, he said that the summit may not happen on time. Last week the high rank North Korean officials said they will not attend the meeting if the meeting is solely focusing on unilateral denuclearization. If the summit does not happen as expected, the stock market and bond market will have corresponding moves, the stock market tends to drop while the bond market will rally.

## U.S. and China agree on the outline to settle ZTE controversy.

Two countries have agreed on the broad outline of a deal that would save ZTE, which has been banned from importing from US companies. 

## U.S. Stocks slide as investors weigh trade talks and summit between the U.S. and North Korea.

After the rally on Monday, the U.S. stock indexes ended with a loss. The industrial companies which were the biggest winner on Monday become the biggest loser on Tuesday. Trump said that he is not satisfied with the trade talks with China and indicated that the summit with North Korea may not happen. These two statements drag down the stock markets. Investors are worried about the trade war and the political risk of North Korea.

## U.S. government bond yields keep unchanged following the two-year auction.

U.S. government bond stalled Tuesday as a dearth of economic data and a relatively uneventful debt auction left many investors sitting on the sidelines.

The bond prices rose overnight as the investors braced for the political uncertainty under the country's new government, as a result, the yield slipped. After that, the yield travelled sideways, with some analysts attributing the lull in trading to a dearth of economic data on the calendar. Bond yield largely held steady after the Treasury sold $33 billion of 2-year notes at a high yield of 2.59% which is slightly lower than where they traded before the auction. The absence of a so-called tail - when the highest yield sold in the auction exceeds the highest yield expected when the auction began - suggested there was a fair demand among investors for the bonds, something analysts said helped keep the market steady. On the contrary, if the tail occurred, it indicates the lack of interest in the bond, which will drag down the bond price and push the yield higher.

The Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday afternoon will publish minutes from its May 1-2 meeting, in which it held short-term interest rates steady. Analysts say they will be parsing the minutes for clues into the central bank’s thinking on the path of interest rates.

## Oil price fluctuates.

The oil price broke through $80 a barrel threshold after the U.S. threatened to tighten economic sanctions against Iran. After that, it fell amid concerns about the possible trade war. The oil market likes free trade. Any time there's concerns about a trade war, it weighs on prices.

But Brent crude, still ended at $79.57 (0.44% up) which is a 3.5 year high, whereas the WTI fell 11 cents ending at $72.13 a barrel. 

Also weighing on prices in late trading was a report from Reuters that the OPEC will consider raising output as its June meeting amid mounting concerns that drop-offs in supply from Iran and Venezuela will lift prices so high that it will dent demand.