---
layout: post
title: "Daily news"
date: 2018-05-11
---


## The U.S. took a step to cut Iran off from the global economy, levying sanctions on the financing network.  

The U.S will try to prevent any dollar transactions with Iran, which will curb Iran's ability to fund the terrorist group in the middle-east area. It also levies the secondary sanctions which will push Western companies and banks if they continue to do business with the country. The details are as follows:

The U.S. will consider any company continuing to export airplanes and parts to Iran, conducting U.S. dollar transactions, trading in gold and other metals or Iranian sovereign debt, or engaging in auto-industry deals after Aug. 6 to be in violation of its sanctions program.

The purpose of the sanctions is to pressure Iran and the other major parties to the nuclear deal to agree and sign a new accord that will permanently remove Iran's ability to develop nuclear weapons, advance its ballistic-missile programs, support for U.S.-designated terror groups.

## BoE keeps all options open on rates.

BoE makes light of the first quarter slowdown of the economy. It tends to think that the slowdown is transient which is largely due to the bad weather. During the policy meeting, the majorities of the officials thought that it is affordable to hold the imminent rate rise and to wait and see. It estimates that the inflation will be back to 2 per cent in 2 years. They thought that 3 quarter-point increase  before 2021 is enough to stablise the economy and inflation. This was roughly the extent of tightening priced into markets in the run-up to this decision. 

The markets are not satisified with the BoE's report, thinking it is not very clear and doesn't convey a clear path for the future interest rate. On the contrary, the Mark Carney said they already gave a big picture to the people who really care about it except those who is focus on the short-term FX markets. 


## Populist parties close to forming alliance.

In Italy, the anti-establishment Five Star Movement and the far-right League took a big stride towards forming a Eurosceptic government in Italy. This is most destablising outcome to the Eurozone because both parties have attacked EU fiscal rules, banking regulations, trade deals and sanctions on Russia. The 10 year bond rate increase as the inverstors are losing confidence in the possbile government. If the anti-europe government formed successfully, this will have a negative impact on the Eurozone, and may drag down the currency and increase the uncertainty of the Area.


