---
layout: post
title: "Daily news"
date: 2018-05-15
---

## US judges clear way to sporting gambling.

The supreme court paved the way for legalized sports gambling yesterday, which lead to a rise of Bookmaker shares.

## Italy's populist parties plead for more time.

The five-star movement and the far-right League have difficulties to select a prime minister for its coalition government. The success of forming the new government will hit the Eurozone, and increase the uncertainty in the area. Euro may depreciate and the German bond yield may drop.

## Catalan parliament elects pro-separist Torra as leader.

After five months, the Catalan parliament elects Torra as the new local government leader, ending the direct rule of Madrid. The new leader is a pro-separatist, who supports his predecessor Puigdemont, who is now in Germany. This move increases the uncertainty of the Spanish political system. The leader is more likely to seek for the independence in a moderate way, not as radical as the independence referendum last year. This may impact the economy, as Catalan is the richest region of Spain.

## The geopolitical risk increases as Israeli security forces shot dead at least 52 Gaza protests.

The Palestinian people join rally against the inauguration of building in Jerusalem. The conflict broke between the military force and the protesters. This will deepen the already conflicts between Isreal and Muslin nations, such as Palestine and Iran. 

## After Trump's surprise reprieve for ZTE Corp, China's foreign ministry confirmed that Liu He, vice-premier, would travel to Washington today for three-day trade talks with US delegation led by Steven Mnuchin, Treasury secretary, who is less hawkish and more amenable. 

The results of this talk will have a significant impact on global markets. The trade war will hurt both countries and the global economy.

## The shares price of oil and gas companies soared this quarter, boosted by rising oil prices, improving earnings and promises of hefty cash returns to shareholders.

## the 10-year German Bund yield rose to its highest level for more than two weeks, and Euro appreciates against Dollar after Francois Villeroy de Galhau, the governor of the Bank of France said that the ECB's first rate rise would come "Some quarters, but not years" after the end of its asset-purchase programme. 

The markets interpret his speech as a signal of faster rate hike cycle when it eventually does come.




