---
title: "Daily News"
date: 2018-05-24
---
## Falling Turkey lira spurs Turkey to Raise rates.

After two week's sell-off in lira, Turkey's central bank raised a key interest rate 3 percent at the emergency meeting last night. The lira has plunged 17.6% in May. The investors worried that the forthcoming presidential election would deprive central bank of its independence.

## Donald Trump called off the June Summit with Kim, Cites "Hostility"

Donald Trump says he has cancelled the planned June 12 summit with North Korea after a series of tough statements from North Korea. The cancellation of the summit brought back the political uncertainty. The market might be hit by this news. 

## Fed Minutes Signal Rate Increase in June.

May meeting minutes say 'it would likely soon be appropriate' for another rate rise. The Fed officials at their meeting earlier this month singled they were likely to raise the benchmark short-term interest rate at their June meeting, and they debated how to characterize an evolving policy strategy that soon would no longer try to stimulate economic growth. The minutes framed two important questions that will shape policy over the next few years. First, officials must determine the neutral setting for the fed-funds rate now that officials expect the economy to grow faster than is sustainable over the long run. After that, they must determine how much higher to push rates above neutral to slow growth and prevent the economy from overheating.

The Fed officials also signalled that they won't necessarily accelerate interest rate increases once inflation runs at or slightly above 2%. The latest consumer price rose to 2% in March, while the core prices, which exclude the volatile food and energy sectors, rose 1.9%. Meanwhile, a report released after the meeting showed that the unemployment rate fell to 3.9% in April. The majority of the officials still believe in a framework that sees an inverse correlation between unemployment and inflation. If the unemployment rate drops faster, officials likely will be more attuned to the potential for acceleration in inflation.

The recent tax cut and a government spending increase are set to provide more stimulus to the economy. Fed officials need to sort out how much these changes could boost growth and price pressures, and the minutes show little consensus so far on those effects.

## U.S. government bond yield fell after the dovish Fed meeting minutes and the Trump's tariff proposal.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell for a second consecutive session to 2.981% from 3.003% Wednesday, notching its biggest two-day decline since March 1. Bond prices soar as yields fall. From the Fed's meeting minutes, it showed that the Fed will stay on a gradual path of interest rates even if the inflation meets its target or runs slightly higher than 2%. The dovish statement fuel the bond prices. On top of that, Trump tried to impose the new tariffs on auto imports, which will lead to slower growth by inviting retaliatory measure from Germany, Japan and South Korea. As a safe haven, the Treasury bond becomes more attractive after Trump called off the June summit with North Korea.

In conclusion, the geopolitical risks from North Korea and Iran, the possible trade tension with China and western countries will prevent the future yields increase.


