---
layout: post
title: "Daily News"
date: 2018-05-17
---

## Oil price continues its rally amid concerns over Iran supply.

Brent oil price has reached $80 per barrel today, then ended at $79.5 per barrel. WTI settled at $71.49 a barrel after hitting $72. On the one hand, _The strong dollar_ may have dented oil's rise. The oil price and dollar tend to have a negative correlation as oil transactions are settled by Dollar, which means that higher dollar makes oil more expensive. On the other hand, the possible sanctions on Iran will put at least 400,000 barrels Iranian oil export at risk, which will make the already tight oil market tighter. If there is no reduction in demand, the oil price tends to move toward 90$. Moreover, the decrease in Venezuelan and Iranian oil export cannot be counteracted by the U.S. oil production. The market doesn't believe the U.S. oil producer can fill this gap due to the pipeline congestion in the most prolific U.S. oil field.

## Lithium becomes more and more popular among the firms that need it to produce batteries for electric car and mobile phones. 

Tesla and a large Chinese firm each struck new deals with lithium producers on Thursday. Both lithium and cobalt, which is also used in the batteries production, face a potential shortage in the years ahead as electric-vehicle use grows. This is a good news for lithium producers, such as Glencore, Albemarle. Their share prices all rally. 

However, the rush to lock in lithium and cobalt supplies could turn out to be a speculative bust. Prices of lithium and cobalt more than doubled from 2016 but cooled off recently amid worries about oversupply. As the metal becomes more and more popular, the number of the lithium producers Soares. Everyone wants to take a share. The demand may fall behind.

## US stock markets retreat.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell Thursday, as investors seemed unfazed by upbeat earnings and more concerned with the renewed trade tension. WSJ have done some research about the stock market performance after a bumper earnings seasons and a disappointing one and found that the stock markets tend to perform better after a disappointing earnings seasons. The reason behind it lies the fact that the disappointing or strong earnings are all about the past, while investors are looking into futures. At the moment, the rising interest rate, the possible trade war with China make the investors unease. 

## Indexes in HK fell despite the jump of Tencent.

Tencent has published its quarterly earnings reports, beat expectation with a %61 increase in net profit. Tencent's share price soar by 5% by the midday trading. Index's initial 1% gain thanks to Tencent's good performance proved short-lived due to weakness in local developers and lenders.

## Yield spread between Treasurys, German bunds is largest in three decades.

The widen spread illustrates the gap between growth rates. Almost all the economic data showed that U.S. economy is on the right track and the growth is accelerating, whereas, in Europe, the growth slowed down. The spread signals the increasing confidence in U.S. markets. Investors worried that the Fed will increase the interest rate to prevent the economy from overheating. 