---
title: "Daily News"
date: 2018-05-24
---

## Republicans launch revolt against Trump rescue of China's ZTE

The congressional Republicans are mounting a rebellion over Donald Trump's move to patch up trade relations with Beijing, drawing up legislation that would block the White House's attempt to rescue ZTE. They are not satisfied with what China offers in exchange for the reprieve of ZTE. If they succeeded, the trade tension between two countries may come back. This indicates the conflicts within the Republican party. If the reprieve for ZTE failed, the trade talk progress may halt or retreat.

## Sterling gain 0.5% after Mark Carney, the BoE governor, told the Treasury select committee that households were right to think "interest rate is more likely to go up but at a gentle rate"

After the Carney's statements, sterling rallied. The market interprets the statement as a optimism about the UK economy and also an indication of the possible rate rise. The currency has fallen sharply since mid-April due to the softening inflation figures and the BoE's decision to hold the interest rate unchanged. The reason why Monetary Policy Committee hold the interest rate is that although the MPC remains optimistic about UK economy, the slowed growth in the first quarter makes the MPC wait for more data to make the decision. MPC think the bad weather is the main reason for the slowdown in the economy. 

## Global stock markets remained upbeat yesterday, as a continued easing of trade tensions between China and the U.S.

The eased tension between China and U.S. overshadowed anxieties about the formation of a populist government in Italie. The S&P500 rallied, responding positively as Washington and Beijing closed in a deal to lift the ban on US companies supplying ZTE Corp. In response, China was willing to cut import tax on cars. This news makes the U.S. car maker the biggest winner, including Ford and GM. 

## Italian 10-year bond yields stopped the upward trends.

The sell-off of the bond drew buyers. The yield on Italy's 10-year BTP bonds was back to 2.35% from 2.4 percent. But this will not last long because of the anti-euro policy of the newly formed government. The new coalition may bring the European project under scrutiny, causing a systemic risk that will implicate other eurozone markets.

## The Dollar rally paused.

The dollar rally took a pause, reducing the pressure on emerging market currencies. The exception was the Turkish lira, which ended 1.6 percent loss. Rating agency Fitch warned of a possible downgrade for Turkey if next month's presidential election led to the demise of central bank independence.

## New sanction against Venezuela lift the oil prices. 

