---
layout: post
title: "Daily news"
date: 2018-05-16
---

## North Korea bristles at US's demands for denuclearization. 

The high officials of North Korea said that they are not interested in the talks which only focus on denuclearization and they will not accept the destiny like Iraq and Libya.  That cast doubt on the North's willingness to proceed with a planned June 12 summit with Donald Trump in Singapore.


## Global markets wavered on Wednesday as investors absorbed the cocktail of economic data and geopolitical headlines. 

The data from the Commerce Departement showed American consumers ramped up spending for everything from food to closing to gasoline in April, refresh the investors' confidence in US economy. They bets that the U.S. economy is gaining momentum, as a result, they are selling the government bond, which sends the 10-year treasury yield to record high during last 7 years. Besides the retail data, the Empire State Manufacturing Survey's general business condition index, a survey of New York manufacturing activity, showed business activity improving more than expected over the past month.  All these positive data showed the U.S. economy picking up steam and may lead to a tighter policy of Federal Reserve. The Federal-funds futures, used by traders to place bets on the path of interest rates, showed a 55% chance of the Fed raising short-term interest rates four times by the end of the year - up from 50% Monday.  

Although the U.S. economy is on solid footing, growth elsewhere is cooling.  In the eurozone, the consumer prices rose more slowly than first estimated in the 12 months through March, while growth appears to have slowed in the first quarter of the year. The economic momentum has also been elusive elsewhere.  In Japan, fresh GDP data revealed that the Japanese economy shrank in the first quarter of 2018, snapping its longest run of growth in 28 yearsThe gap between the U.S. and rest of the world would push the dollar to the higher price. 

## In commodity markets, Brent crude oil was last down 0.6% at $77.93 a barrel. Gold gained 0.3% to $1294.67 a troy ounce after slipping below $1,300 for the first time since December the previous day