---
title: "Daily News"
date: 2018-05-17
---

## The trade tension between US and China eased.

As the representatives of China and US announced that two countries will not impose the tariffs on each other's export. This stock markets all over the world rallied thanks to this news. U.S. stocks soared Monday, driven by industrial companies. The industrial companies tend to have bigger exposure to the exports, making them a beneficiary of the eased trade tension. Boeing, which has been sensitive to investor sentiment on trade, was the biggest winner in the Dow, rising 3.6%. US Crude oil rose to 1.3% Monday to $72.24 a barrel.

 In Europe, the Stoxx Europe 600 gained 0.3%. Britain's FTSE 100 rose 1.0%, marking an all-time high. Italie is an exception. The stock index in Italy dropped 1.5% Monday, amid the concerns about its antiestablishment parties' advances in forming a new government. The economic policy they pursue is against to some of the eurozone's fiscal and monetary rules. There is a big uncertainty whether Italy will stay in the European Union. The spreads between Italian and German government bonds continued to widen.

Although the tension between China and U.S. has been eased, two parties have yet found a final resolution. The market will closely watch the progress of future trade talks between two countries. It will become the biggest driver of the stock market worldwide. Also, Fed will release its meeting minutes this week, which will shed the light on future rate path. The high yield may damage the stock markets by attracting investors to invest in the bond markets.


In my opinion, a trade war is not likely to happen, as a result, the big indexes will continue to rally.


## Spain maintains direct rule over Catalonia.

After the Catalonia region has elected a new leader, the Spanish government is supposed to stop the direct rule over the region. However, Spanish prime minister Mariano Rajoy said that the new leader of Catalonia appointed 4 members of the new government, two of them are in jail the other two are abroad. Spanish Prime Minister said they could not legally govern the region from the jail or abroad. This announcement increases the tension between the Catania and the Spanish government. The political risks may have a negative impact on the economy.

## In the week ahead, multiple economic indicators will be released.

In the week ahead, readings on U.S. home sales, consumer sentiment and durable-goods orders will be released; The U.K. will have the new inflation data, and the eurozone gets a report on services and manufacturing activity.

__Wednesday:__ [IHS Markit](https://quotes.wsj.com/INFO) 's __composite purchasing manager index__  - a measure of activity in the service and manufacturing sectors- will provide further clues about the economy. Whether the economic slowdown is mainly due to the code weather. Moreover, the Office for National Statistics will release April U.K. consumer-price inflation. This is a really important indicator, which the BoE is closely watching. The consumer prices rose an annual 2.5% in March, down from 2.7% in February but still well above the BoE's 2% target. 

__Thursday:__ The National Association of Realtors releases April existing-home sales data. The recent data have signalled lacklustre performance in the housing market despite the accelerating economic growth.

__Friday:__ The U.S. Commerce Department releases April durable-goods figures. 
 