---
layout: post
title: "Daily news"
date: 2018-05-14
---

## Consumer spending is still declining despite the pick-up in wage growth.

The household expenditure adjusted for inflation and seasonal effects was 2 percent lower in April compared with the same month one year earlier, estimated by Visa. The spending has fallen on this measure for 11 of the last 12 months.

The falling inflation and growing wage do not as expected lead to higher household expenditures. Some of the authorities think that it is due to the bad weather in the first quarter which kept shoppers off the streets. However, in April, the better weather only brought a modest upturn. This may suggest that some people are losing confidence in the future economic outlook and decided to save more. 

## Italian populists parties are close to forming a coalition.

Italy's leading populist parties are within striking distance of forming a government in the eurozone's third-largest economy. Mr Di Maio, the leader of the Five Star Movement, and Mr Salvini, head of the far-right League, had claimed progress in reconciling key economic policies, including Five Star's desire to implement a guaranteed minimum income for the poor, as well as the League's push to introduce a flat income tax. These two policies are likely to further increase the debt burden of the country.


## Rising dollar hits the emerging bond markets.

Investors who bought some of the riskiest emerging market sovereign bonds in the past year have been left nursing paper losses as a strengthening dollar has rattled sentiment. As the dollar rises, there are fears that indebted nations face a higher burden of repaying their debts in local currency terms. 

## Trump asked the US commerce department to assist ZTE, which has been banned from sourcing vital components from US companies.

This is very unusual. After declaring the trade war, Trump suddenly changed his strategy, He posted a twit saying "President Xi of China, and I, are working together to give massive Chinese Phone company, ZTE, a way to get back into the business, fast. Too many jobs in China loses. Commerce Department has been instructed to get it done." This move may come as the administration tries to convince foreign companies to cut ties to Iran following the US's withdraw from the nuclear deal.
  